[MUSIC]
So, the first thing we want to know is
whether consumers seek out
fair trade certified products in the
marketplace.
In oder to test that, we took fair trade
certified coffee,
we labeled it as fair trade certified in
one set of stores.
We label it with a placebo label, that had
no ethical component to it,
in the other set of stores.
And we observed what happens to sales,
as consumers are making their day to day
purchases in these stores.
And what we found is that sales increased
by 10%, a remarkable margin,
given the competitive,
competitiveness of the industry under the
Fair Trade Certified label.
The second main finding that came from the
study is that once we
raised the prices on the Fair Trade coffee
sales actually continued to grow.
There was a positive price elasticity, but
this was only true for one of two Fair
Trade Certified coffees that we tested.
For the less expensive coffee, and the
sales actually decreased dramatically.
And so that suggests to us that there is
two segments in the market.
There's consumers who are beginning to
support the price increases that come with
Fairtrade certification, but there are
also consumers who will not support this.
And, you know, it's about an equal split.
[MUSIC]
I think the main takeaway is that there's
substantial support for
fair trade certification in the
marketplace today but it's not unlimited.
So, I think there is a fair segment,
fairly sizeable segment that is not
willing to pay more for
these ethically made products, as much as
we might want to.
But, there are, like there is a fairly
large share of consumers that
are willing to pay more for these
products, and that's something that,
you know, companies, I think, can take as
an important lesson.
I mean, I think, this, this gives you an
opportunity to differentiate your
product from your competitors, and to
really, like, you know, have,
I think there is a business case for these
ethical differentiation schemes where,
you basically, try to pass on some of
these costs for
ethically upgrading your supply chains, to
the consumers.
[MUSIC]
I think the lesson that comes from our
experiment is that this is something that
you should look into seriously.
You should look into whether you can
ethically differentiate your product,
because there are consumers out there,
depending on the market that you're in,
that are really willing to reward you.
And who might, on the other hand, punish
you, if you don't go down this road, and
might be singled out as the company that's
kind of left behind.
While other of your competitors are
ethically upgrading, you,
you're not doing that.
And, and so, I think there's a risk in, to
not considering these schemes, and to not
thinking about, you know, what can I do to
produce my products in a way that it's
environmentally more friendly, that it's
sort of more ethically more sustainable.
That has a better impact on the planet,
which are things that we all care about.
[MUSIC]